=pod

=head1 NAME

clipbored - continuously collects all selections in Xorg's clipboard buffers

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  clipbored [OPTIONS]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<clipbored> is a daemon that continuously grabs all non-duplicate selections
in the X.org clipboard buffers and writes them to a plaintext history file for
later use.

There are several scripts distributed with clipbored that'll use the history
file for different purposes.

=head2 Scripts

  dmenurl   - launch dmenu with all previously yanked URLs for you to select
              from.

  dmenuclip - launch dmenu listing all previously clipboarded content

=head1 OPTIONS

  -l,   --last        show the n latest additions
  -c,   --clear       clear all history
  -n,   --no-daemon   do not detach from the shell
  -k,   --kill        kill a running clipbored session
  -h,   --help        show this help
  -m,   --man         display the manual
  -v,   --version     show version info

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

The history file location is $XDG_DATA_HOME/clipbored/clips

The X selection to use can be specified by setting the B<CLIPBORED_X_SELECTION>
environment variable.

If unset, or set to I<primary> , text is grabbed from the B<XA_PRIMARY> buffer.
When text is selected with the mouse, or piped through xclip/xsel with zero
arguments, it ends up here. This is most likely what you want.

If set to I<clipboard>, text is grabbed from the B<XA_CLIPBOARD> buffer. Data
ends up in this buffer when an explicit action is taken to cut/copy text; used
in many GUI environments.

To the best of my knowledge, the I<secondary> buffer is rarely used at all.

The helper scripts can read properties from environment variables.
These are recognized:

  CLIPBORED_DMENU_LISTMODE    regular/vertical
  CLIPBORED_DMENU_NORMAL_FG   foreground color in HEX
  CLIPBORED_DMENU_NORMAL_BG   background color in HEX
  CLIPBORED_DMENU_SELECT_FG   selected item background color in HEX
  CLIPBORED_DMENU_SELECT_BG   selected item foreground color in HEX
  CLIPBORED_DMENU_FONT        font that will be used
  CLIPBORED_DMENU_LINES       how many lines that will be shown in vertical mode
  CLIPBORED_X_SELECTION       X buffer to use: primary, secondary, clipboard

=head1 AUTHOR

    \ \ | / /
     \ \ - /
      \ | /
      (O O)
      ( < )
      (-=-)

  Magnus Woldrich
  CPAN ID: WOLDRICH
  magnus@trapd00r.se
  http://japh.se

=head1 CONTRIBUTORS

Markus Weimar suggested we should be able to pick the clipboard buffer to use.
Since I very rarely use any GUI applications, I wasn't aware of the fact that
when CTRL+C/CTRL+V etc is used, it goes into the XA_CLIPBOARD buffer instead of 
the XA_PRIMARY, probably rendering clipbored somewhat useless to the users using
these types of applications. :)

=head1 REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs to L<trapd00r@trapd00r.se> or L<use the issue tracker|http://github.com/trapd00r/clipbored/issues>.

clipbored home page: L<http://github.com/trapd00r/clipbored/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2010, 2011 the B<clipbored>s L</AUTHOR> and L</CONTRIBUTORS> as listed
above.

=head1 LICENSE

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
